[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
You know, one of the
great parts of what I do
is interviewing
people who are experts
in subjects that are so dear
to me, like remote viewing.
>>NARRATOR: He is said to
be the foremost authority
on remote viewing.
Marty Rosenblatt is president
of the Applied Precognition
Project and editor of online
magazine, "Connections Through
Time."
He believes consciousness
is non-local.
It is not confined to
a physical place, which
makes it possible to view
distant events-- past, present,
and future-- and
while he recognizes
that psychics have hit a
wall, with most at around 55%
to 65% accuracy,
Marty believes we're
on the brink of a paradigm
shift that will allow psychics
to achieve 80% accuracy.
He explains how increasing
empathy improves forecasting
today on "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: So welcome to "Beyond
Belief," Marty Rosenblatt.
Marty, welcome to the program.
>>MARTY ROSENBLATT: Thank
you, a pleasure to be here.
>>NOORY: I just
love remote viewing.
I really, really love it.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's terrific.
Yeah, I do, too.
I mean, it's just fantastic
what the mind can do.
>>NOORY: You're a physicist.
>>ROSENBLATT: I am.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in remote viewing?
I mean, that's
not something that
would naturally evolve for you.
>>ROSENBLATT: Well, I have
always been interested
in things like science
fiction, so I have always
had kind of a natural
inclination for things
right at the edge and to try
to figure out what's real
or what's not real.
As a scientist, you start
reading a lot of information,
and remote viewing
was one of them.
Then I'm a working
physicist with clearances.
It turns out I was
involved with the DIA, just
as a subcontractor,
and I saw this paper
by Hal Puthoff and
Russ Targ which
talked about remote viewing.
>>NOORY: Part of the fathers of
remote viewing and, of course,
the late Ingo Swann.
>>ROSENBLATT: Exactly,
exactly, so I actually
went to my contacts
at DNA, and I said,
you guys need to
know about this.
I didn't know they were
funding it at the time.
And they actually
sent me to SRI,
where Puthoff and Targ were.
And that's where I
met them, and then,
of course, from then on--
this was in the late '70s,
I guess-- from then
on, I have just
been fascinated with the
subject and taking it
on in a very serious way.
>>NOORY: For people
who don't know,
our government, after the
Soviets got involved in this,
put together a remote
viewing program
with the Ingo Swanns
and the Hal Puthoffs
and the Russell
Targs because they
wanted to beat the Russians at
something that was going on.
I want you, Marty, to explain
to us, what is remote viewing?
>>ROSENBLATT: OK,
remote viewing is
like the gathering
of information
at a distance via
what I guess could be
called paranormal techniques.
Now by distance--
and this is what's
so important-- we
mean not only space,
but we mean time, past,
present, and future.
And distance exceeds the planet.
Ingo Swann did a great
remote viewing session
on the planet Jupiter where
he predicted the rings
around Jupiter which
later the Voyager saw.
So we're talking basically
getting information
from virtually
anywhere, anytime.
Now paranormal
means, I really want
to define that because I
believe remote viewing is
a natural capability
we all have.
The only reason it's
called paranormal
is because it's not
accepted by our society.
So that's what
remote viewing is.
>>NOORY: And a
lot of them aren't
aware of this gift we have.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's
exactly right.
>>NOORY: I have
always called what
we tap into the wireless
internet in the universe.
To me, that makes a lot of sense
because we're all connected.
You're connected to me.
I'm connected to Ellie, one
of our production managers.
We're all connected through
this wireless internet that
just permeates the
universe, and I'm
convinced that extraterrestrials
that are out there
were hooked into them, too.
>>ROSENBLATT: I agree with that.
I use somewhat different
terms, but really it
means the same thing.
I like that.
I say, consciousness
is the fundamental.
All sentient beings, anyone
who has consciousness,
any entities, animals, too,
of course, insects, of course,
ETs, yes, all that
consciousness,
all of those conscious
moments, we have
a conscious moment right now.
That conscious moment
gets stored in a universe
of collective consciousness.
That's the fundamental.
Everything we know,
we know through
our conscious awareness,
and that's shareable.
And that's what's amazing.
So you can tap
into that with what
we call remote viewing,
clairvoyance, precognition.
It's all the same thing.
We're tapping into
this wireless universe,
collective
consciousness universe.
>>NOORY: Can remote viewing
take you into the future,
into the past?
>>ROSENBLATT: Absolutely,
I mean, that's what we do.
My focus is on what's
called precognition,
which is this ability to gather
information from the future.
And I think that
is so significant
because if you really
get into the fact--
and it's now been demonstrated
in multiple places.
Stanford Research
Institute did studies.
Princeton University, one
of their groups there,
the para group, did studies
showing that, indeed,
precognition is real.
What does that mean?
That means we can gather
information from the future,
and that information is
coming back in the present
and influencing us.
>>NOORY: What an amazing gift.
>>ROSENBLATT: It
changes what we usually
think of as cause and effect.
The future is affecting this
now moment as much as the past.
That's remarkable, and we are
connected with it all now.
>>NOORY: Why is it that
some people are better at it
than others?
>>ROSENBLATT: I do believe
there is a natural talent.
Some people are
just better at it
when they get to be old enough
to start using it directly.
I think, especially
in our society,
children are taught
to turn it off.
Oh, that's crazy.
Don't believe your dreams,
thing of that sort,
so they're taught
to turn it off.
>>NOORY: Even with their
little imaginary friends.
>>ROSENBLATT: Exactly, stuff
like that, and I believe--
and this is actually
controversial-- I
believe it can be trained.
In the work we do, we see
people getting better at it,
better at it as they
do it more and as they
want to get better at it.
The only limits that you
really put on yourself
are from yourself.
>>NOORY: Let's take
a few minutes, Marty,
and take a look at
some images that I
want you to discuss with us in
terms of who these people are,
what they do, and
what they bring
to the table for remote viewing.
So let's go to our
first one here.
Tell me about the very
first remote viewers
and some of the key players
that you just mentioned.
What are we looking at here?
>>ROSENBLATT: OK, on the left
is Hal Puthoff back in 1973.
This program started in
right about that time frame,
1972 or so.
Hal Puthoff was a director
at the Stanford Research
Institute.
Now that's a group
of scientists that
came from Stanford University,
so high level scientists.
They got involved in
lots of different work,
including classified work,
and the guy next to Hal
is Kit Green, who is a CIA.
He was the connection with
the CIA very early on.
>>NOORY: Boy, they took
this seriously, didn't they?
>>ROSENBLATT: They took
all of this seriously.
There were many people
who kept not believing it,
but it was funded for over 20
years, which is rather amazing.
And it had many high-level
scientific committees,
all trying to find flaws
in it, not believing it,
but, indeed, it just
turned out to be true.
>>NOORY: The next person
was our buddy, Russell Targ.
>>ROSENBLATT: Next to that
was Russell Targ, who worked
with Hal for most of the time.
Hal was the head of it, but Rus
was, like, his first deputy.
And they did a tremendous
amount of work in this area.
>>NOORY: He's nearly blind now.
>>ROSENBLATT: Correct.
>>NOORY: And rides a motorcycle.
>>NOORY: Because he
uses his remote viewing
to get him around.
>>ROSENBLATT:
Isn't that amazing?
>>NOORY: He's like a bat
with a signal that goes out.
>>ROSENBLATT: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable,
and then the last person
is-- who is that?
>>ROSENBLATT: That's Pat Price.
He was a retired Oakland
detective, one of the best
remote viewers ever.
>>NOORY: A detective?
>>ROSENBLATT: He
was a detective.
He used to use his
intuition in solving crimes.
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh.
>>ROSENBLATT: But
he was retired.
And I don't know
exactly who found him,
but he did some of
the most amazing work,
including reading files
inside sealed file cabinets
in top-secret facilities.
>>NOORY: And he was accurate.
>>ROSENBLATT: When
he first did this,
the security people
came out, and they
were sure there was a
major security leak.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you
would think that.
>>ROSENBLATT: This
is impossible.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>ROSENBLATT: And in
many ways, that probably
was one of the
incidents that really
helped keep the funding going.
I mean, hey, if
he could do that,
what if the Russians
could do that?
So that's one of the most
amazing stories in this,
and that really kicked this off.
And that was in the early '70s.
>>NOORY: All right, our
next image, of course,
the military trained
remote viewers.
Let's take a look at that and
have you explain to us, Marty,
what we're looking at.
>>ROSENBLATT: This
is in, like, 2000--
>>NOORY: And I recognize
all these people.
That's Russell on
the far right, right?
>>ROSENBLATT: And Hal
Puthoff on the left.
So they've aged now.
This is in, like, 2002 or so.
>>NOORY: Who's the
guy in the middle?
>>ROSENBLATT: An
IRVA conference,
which shows that this
has now gotten out there.
Now the guy in the
middle was also
involved at the very beginning.
>>NOORY: I've seen him.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's
Ingo Swann himself.
>>NOORY: That's him.
He still looks young
in that picture.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's true.
That is true.
He was so instrumental.
He actually taught the
scientists so much.
One of his very famous
sayings is, the remote viewer
should be in charge.
You know, there's a
scientist kept saying,
you do it this way.
You do it this way.
He said, no.
Relax, guys.
The remote viewer is in charge.
Let me kind of set
up the rules, which
were very free form for him.
>>NOORY: Our next visual
I want people to look at
is the question, can
anyone do remote viewing?
So let's take a look at this.
What are we looking
at here, Marty?
>>ROSENBLATT: This is from
one of our-- let me call
it average, normal,
off-the-street street people
that join us in our work.
There are so many
examples of remote viewing
that the professionals
do, like Ingo,
like Joe McMoneagle, the
well-known professionals,
and they are right on.
This is one which I like to
show as an example of what
anyone who is trained
and interested in doing
this might do.
The picture on the
right was totally
blind to the remote viewer.
His task was to describe
and sketch this photo.
We call it a photo site.
>>NOORY: Which they
didn't know what it was.
>>ROSENBLATT: It was totally
blind, so that was his job.
I happened to be a judge.
And I wanted to know
which of two pictures
it was going to be
because we apply this
to sporting events
and financial events
where there are two choices.
OK, so that's what we
have a judge involved.
Now my point is, totally blind,
I'm sitting here as a judge,
and I see that picture
on the left, wow.
>>NOORY: A hand coming down
from a cloud, which looks
like that picture on the right.
>>ROSENBLATT: And, in
fact, when I saw that hand,
I thought it was the hand
of God because I hadn't even
looked at the picture yet.
Everybody was blind
to the picture.
>>NOORY: Look at the fingers.
Look at the bottom of the photo.
See?
>>ROSENBLATT: Yeah, I do, the,
like, stem, the top of the stem
there and then the second
one with the long stem.
OK, so that's how good that is.
People can do, not the
professionals, normal people
off the street can do this.
A lot of them don't even
know they can do this.
>>NOORY: Now I wonder
what the people who
did those two sketches did when
they saw that actual photo.
Were they mystified?
Were they, like, in shock?
Oh, my God, look what I did.
>>ROSENBLATT: When
they see the photo--
and that's called feedback.
We give it to them, and that's
exactly how a lot of them
respond at first.
They are just so
pleased and excited,
and it's a
demonstration for them.
And all the talking that
we're doing about this,
there's nothing like getting
a session that's this good.
Now they're not all this good.
>>NOORY: That was good.
>>ROSENBLATT: But
this one is very good.
>>NOORY: We'll come back
to some more images,
but let's take a look
at a technologist who
predicted how the world
will end with the backing
of some scientific evidence.
Watch this.
>>ROSENBLATT: OK.
>>TECHNOLOGIST: The biggest
danger to life as we know it,
I think, a really big
asteroid heads for Earth.
In 1908, just a 200-foot
piece of a comet
exploded over Siberia
and flattened forests
for maybe 100 miles.
It had the effect of about
1,000 Hiroshima bombs.
In 1989, a large asteroid passed
400,000 miles away from Earth.
Nothing to worry about, right?
It passed directly
through Earth's orbit.
We were in that spot
six hours earlier.
This is a chart that Dr. Clark
Chapman of the Southwestern
Research Institute presented
to Congress a few years ago.
You'll notice that the chance
of an asteroid slash comet
impact killing you is about 1
in 20,000, according to the work
they've done.
Now look at the one right
below that-- passenger aircraft
crash, 1 in 20,000.
We spend an awful
lot of money trying
to be sure that we don't
die in airplane accidents,
and we're not spending
hardly anything on this.
>>NOORY: So can be remote
viewers and people who
are experts in precognition,
can they see that happening?
Can they see this asteroid
that nearly missed us?
>>ROSENBLATT: That
kind of question
is a very interesting
question because can they?
In principle, yes, but you have
to think about how you would
frame that kind of question.
And can they pinpoint
the time frame?
>>NOORY: A lot of remote
viewers have a difficult time
pinpointing time.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's
exactly right.
Plus, what you
have to realize is
there are no remote
viewers who are 100%.
Remote viewing is an ability.
When you see examples,
even like the one we saw,
you know it's real.
And that was
precognitive, so, yes, you
could get the information
from the future.
A major event like
an impact like
that, if it were,
God forbid, to occur,
is out there because
the future is out there.
But how would you
ask the question?
It's the same thing
about earthquakes.
I live in Southern California.
Someday, I do believe
we will get to the point
where we can predict
the earthquakes.
Wouldn't that be a
valuable thing to do?
>>NOORY: Some do.
Some do.
>>ROSENBLATT: Yeah, but
how accurate are they?
>>NOORY: Well, I've got one guy.
He's a geologist.
His name is Jim Berkland,
and he's pretty good.
He predicted the San
Francisco earthquake
during a baseball game
in the Oakland Bay Area.
He uses techniques, though.
He's not a remote viewer.
>>ROSENBLATT: Right,
he's using technology.
>>NOORY: He uses technology.
He looks for classified
stories of missing animals.
People say, you know, do you
know where my dog, Fido, is,
or my cat?
And if he sees a lot of
these missing animal reports,
he thinks there's going
to be an earthquake,
and he's been right quite a bit.
>>ROSENBLATT: See,
so he's tapping
into this consciousness,
just like the animals.
The tsunami in Japan, the
recent one, the animals
went up the hill.
>>NOORY: Or the one in
Indonesia, elephants and tigers
headed for the hills.
>>ROSENBLATT: Exactly,
so it shows you
the information is out there.
But to get to the
point where we could
use it and evacuate a city,
we're just not there yet.
And I think being able to get
that time slice narrow enough
so we as a society would be
willing to say, OK, everybody,
it's going to occur
within the next 10 days,
leave in an orderly
fashion, which
is the dream-- we'd love to be
able to do that-- we're just
not there yet.
But I think we will
get there eventually,
as society begins to accept
this view that consciousness
is fundamental.
Precognition is real.
And more and more
people start doing it
because then you can get larger
groups of people focusing
on these sorts of
things and begin
to build up your confidence.
>>NOORY: Marty, the old saying,
would've, could've, should've,
we have this little
voice in us that
tells us to do certain things.
And so many of us just
don't react to it.
We don't deliver on it until
after, and then we say, gosh.
We would've, should've.
We could've, but
we didn't do it.
Is that remote viewing?
Is that something telling us?
We just don't recognize it.
>>ROSENBLATT: Often it is,
just like the gut instincts,
all of that stuff.
One of the things people
that work with us who do this
regularly-- see this
is the beauty of it.
You begin to learn to trust
that because you see that it
is accurate quite often.
Again, it's not
100%, and that's what
makes this field a little bit
tough for others to accept.
You say, oh, yeah,
precognition, sure,
but they want it to
be right all the time.
It's not.
Living with uncertainty
is part of the challenge
that we have moving
into the future here.
>>NOORY: Why is sketching
by remote viewers
so important to what we do here?
>>ROSENBLATT: It really is.
Sketches come up from a deep
sort of creative part of us.
It doesn't tend to go through
the intellect in the same way
words and thoughts do.
In fact, one of the things
that remote viewers are all
told to do is to set aside
the intellect, the ego,
and just let the
information kind of bubble
up from the subconscious,
the submerged consciousness.
You know, you're only
conscious in the moment.
It's this moment where
your consciousness is.
Memories, they're not here now.
Where are they?
They're in this
submerged consciousness
field, which is the same
place future information is.
And so you get quiet,
and you listen quietly.
You get rid of all the
chatter, and then what comes up
is what you report.
And visuals that come up,
visual people have, I think,
a real advantage.
But many people do get
words, and they get a sense
by doing this over and
over that the words are
coming from the subconscious
rather than the intellect.
And that's part of the training.
>>NOORY: Consciousness,
of course,
has everything to do
with this, everything.
Who designed this?
Was it a god that put
this all together?
This is not a fluke
of nature, Marty.
This is not an accident.
To have this ability
to do remote viewing
or to be precognitive,
that just doesn't happen.
You are a scientist.
You've got to be wrestling
with this all the time.
>>ROSENBLATT: Totally,
and I will give you
my best answer to
that which is one
of the reasons I came to
this idea of consciousness
is the fundamental.
It's as far down as you
can go to an explanation.
The physical world is created
from our consciousness--
past, present, and future--
but who's doing that?
It's all the conscious
beings in there now moments.
All that we really know for
sure and all that really exists
is this conscious moment.
It's very creative.
We have free will in
this conscious moment.
This conscious moment is not
only affected by the past.
It's affected by the future.
But guess what?
We create that future, just
like we created the past.
All of that, all
of that together,
all the sentient
beings, anything
that has consciousness,
all together,
that's my definition of God.
So the universe of
collective consciousness,
which is all of this,
which is now being created,
right now we're part of
creating this universe.
It's outside of space and time.
It was the thing which
created space and time,
so it is godlike in the sense
that you think of God as having
created the physical world.
Well, this universal
collective consciousness
is outside of space
and time, right?
>>NOORY: Right, absolutely.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's
as close as I can come
to saying, that's what God is.
>>NOORY: By the end
of this program,
I want you to give people
some tips on what they can do
and where they can go to
better their remote viewing
techniques.
>>ROSENBLATT: OK.
>>NOORY: I want to
look at another video
because some people want to
use this to make monetary gain.
They want to predict what the
financial markets are like,
and they use remote viewing.
Let's take a look.
>>ECONOMIST: My
prediction for 2016
is that at least
one member country
of the group of 20 leading
countries, leading economies,
will go to the International
Monetary Fund for a rescue.
Many are affected by the
collapse of commodity prices.
In many countries, there
has been very large amounts
of borrowing.
There is real risk that
at least in one of them,
and perhaps more
than one of them,
there will be a severe
balance of payments
and financial crisis.
>>NOORY: I want to get one
of those talking newspaper.
That was pretty cool.
Isn't it?
>>ROSENBLATT: Right.
>>NOORY: So is he predicting?
What's he doing?
>>ROSENBLATT: I don't
know how he did it.
You know, there are
people-- in fact,
they're called futurists--
who use data, and just
using the data, will
make predictions.
That's one way to
make a prediction.
>>NOORY: Based on hard data.
>>ROSENBLATT: Based on hard
data and trend lines and things
of that sort.
I don't know if he did that
or if he used remote viewing,
but I will tell you that
Russell Targ used remote viewing
in the silvers market
and made $100,000
or so using remote
viewing directly.
And that's the sort of
thing that we're doing now.
Notice this prediction
was still rather vague,
but it was specific
enough to know,
though I'm not sure he
said what time frame.
Maybe he said a year.
I prefer-- and notice
Russell also was doing
this on a short time frame.
And you want to know why?
So he can get data.
We are doing things over
periods measured in days.
We will make a
prediction on, say,
will the Standard and Poor
index, Dow Jones index,
go up 1/2% or down 1/2%.
Which will happen first,
so that we can buy or sell?
And we get feedback.
We get real data.
And our viewers get
pictures over and over
so they can do this
on a regular basis.
And I think that's very
important to get better at it.
You know, Joe McMoneagle still
to this day-- Joe McMoneagle,
as you know, is one
of the most famous--
>>NOORY: One of the fathers.
He's one of the groups
of remove viewing.
>>ROSENBLATT: Right,
and he still does it.
He's on TV.
He does remote viewing,
lots of TV programs.
He does six a week.
He tries to do one a day.
You know, it's practice,
practice, practice.
>>NOORY: Does he ask
himself the question,
or does he just
open up his mind?
>>ROSENBLATT: He's
got a business
where people come to
him, but he doesn't like
to know what the question is.
He wants to do them blind.
So all of his viewing
is done totally blind,
basically keying
in to the customer.
In fact, he once told
me what he basically
does is say, what is it that
will make the customer happy?
What does the customer
really want to know?
And in the financial
field, we're
doing this using a
photograph, like you
saw an example earlier, but
it's really a photo site.
Our remote viewers go to a
physical location at that time
the picture was taken.
So what they get sounds.
They get smells.
They get textures, everything
that their normal senses can
report.
But that information
is coming from
the submerged consciousness,
from the subconscious.
>>NOORY: How far out have
you seen remote viewers go,
in terms of time?
Hundreds of years?
>>ROSENBLATT: You see
the problem with that--
and there are examples
like that, going back.
Look, there were biblical
references to precognitions,
prophets, the oracles of Delphi.
>>NOORY: And the
Book of Revelations.
>>ROSENBLATT: The Book
of Revelations, and those
were over many,
many, many years.
But in our time,
scientific studies
have been done by Princeton.
There's a par group there,
anomalous research group
at Princeton.
>>NOORY: They call it the
Princeton Eggs, right?
That's what they call it.
>>ROSENBLATT: Well,
that was something else.
That's another thing
we could talk about.
That's a global effect.
>>NOORY: The Global
Consciousness Program.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's right,
but part of that same group
were studies where
they did precognition
over different time periods.
They saw no decline up to weeks.
They never studied it
over longer periods,
and again because it's
hard to get enough data.
When you start doing it
over a long period of time,
you have these great
examples, but you don't
get good statistical data.
>>NOORY: Which is critical, too,
right, backing it up with that?
>>ROSENBLATT: Well,
it is critical
because we really
want to get more
and more scientists
involved in this.
One of my biggest
disappointments
as a scientist is
that science has,
using all the scientific
techniques-- replication,
double-blind studies,
et cetera, et cetera--
have proven that
precognition is real.
Most scientists
will not accept it.
>>NOORY: Hands off.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's right.
Let's look at some more
of our graphics for us.
This one, of course, is, how
accurate are your groups,
and can we use remote
viewing to make money?
We talked a little
bit about that,
but let's take a look at
what we're looking at here.
>>ROSENBLATT: So that's a chart.
>>NOORY: Which shows us what?
>>ROSENBLATT: OK,
and don't get hung up
by the chart and graphics
because it's really
very simple.
On the left is what
we call hit rate.
Remember, we ask,
over and over again,
our remote viewers
to predict sporting
events or financial events.
They either get a hit.
They predict it correctly.
You could have wagered on
it and made money on it.
>>NOORY: Are they give
you scores, too, or just
the winner?
>>ROSENBLATT: No just whether
something like does the market
move up or down?
These are what we
call binary events.
So it's up or down.
Team A wins.
Team B wins.
They get over a
certain number of runs
or under a certain
number of runs,
strictly binary, always
have a clear outcome.
So you know whether you
got a hit or a miss.
>>NOORY: Well, and in, let's
say, a hockey game, predicting
a winner, you are at 50%.
You either pick one team
or the other, right?
>>ROSENBLATT: No,
actually that's not right.
That's still binary,
two choices, but the 50%
would be the odds makers who
are very good at this would say,
the score is going to
be over-- in hockey
the probably low score
is two points or three.
>>NOORY: But that
changes things.
>>ROSENBLATT: Right.
>>NOORY: But if you were
merely just predicting
by remote viewing the winner,
if you get anything over 50%,
then I would think you would
say, something's working here.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's
exactly right.
And the 50% mark is
what you'd expect
to be random in all of this.
So that's the hit rate.
Now remember, they are
predicting pictures.
They're not predicting
the up or down directly.
They are predicting
one of two pictures,
one which is associated
with the market moving up,
the other, down.
They, with a judge in between,
now have the hit rate,
and the curve there
on the bottom axis
is the trial number.
So here is an example that
went out to 100 trials.
Notice early on, they
were below 50-50.
They were down to 35%.
They weren't doing well.
>>NOORY: That was horrible.
>>ROSENBLATT: There is
some learning going on.
So this is cumulative.
>>NOORY: And then
they got better.
>>ROSENBLATT: Then you can see
them getting better and better.
By the end, by the time
there were 100 sessions,
the odds versus chance of doing
this well were 1,500 to 1.
>>NOORY: That's
amazing, truly amazing.
>>ROSENBLATT: That is amazing.
>>NOORY: Let's go
to our next graphic.
So we're talking a little
bit about precognition here,
and what are we
looking at, Marty?
>>ROSENBLATT: OK, precognition,
getting information
from the future,
the way we do it,
feedback is a
critical part of this.
Namely, the viewer,
after the event is over,
will see the picture associated
with the actual outcome,
whether it went up or down.
Now he is seeing the picture.
It's the feedback.
The model is a
telepathic kind of model
because he's sharing that
information with himself
at an earlier time.
So it's precognition
because there's a connection
with the present time.
When he does his
remote viewing session,
when he writes down the sketches
and the words and all that,
that's happening now, but that's
connected with the feedback
time when he sees
the actual picture.
And the information is shared.
That's actually
called entanglement
in quantum mechanical terms.
>>NOORY: Yes,
quantum entanglement.
>>ROSENBLATT: That's called
quantum entanglement,
and that's what's going on here.
We like to call it
precognitive telepathy
because it's between conscious
minds, your own conscious mind,
two times.
>>NOORY: I've interviewed
remote viewers on my show,
and sometimes I do a
little game with them
and I try to remote
view were they
are, doing this late-night
radio interview with me.
And I've been pretty
accurate on that.
One guy, I said, you know what?
You're on a couch in
a room with almost
like a globe and a
bookcase in the background.
And he said, my
God, you're right,
you know, from a remote viewer.
I want to go through some
emails for you, Marty.
From Carrie in
Minnesota, she says,
what's the best way
for a person to tap
into themselves to get what it
really takes to remote view?
>>ROSENBLATT: You know,
they've done studies
on what works best,
the kind of person that
can do best at this,
and it turns out
there are two things which help.
Meditation is number one.
Meditation, getting
quiet, so you
open yourself up
to the connection
with your own subconscious.
>>NOORY: And being positive.
>>ROSENBLATT: And having
a positive attitude.
>>NOORY: That's critical.
>>ROSENBLATT: In
fact, the entanglement
that we talk about, positive
attitude, in fact, I'd
like to bring love into this
because what better connection?
If you can feel this
loving connection
between the remote viewing time
and when you get your feedback,
that'll actually enhance things.
And then the other one happens
to be just what you said.
It's confidence in your
own-- I like to use the word
creativity, being able to know
that from your subconscious
is coming this remarkable
information in a creative way
through your own psyche.
It's coming through you.
>>NOORY: Exactly, George
in Tallahassee, good email,
wants to know, how do we know
that our enemies aren't using
remote viewing to hurt us?
>>ROSENBLATT: Well, we
don't know it for sure.
And the fact of the matter is,
as we share this more and more
with society, the people that
we consider our enemies will
probably pick up on it.
>>NOORY: And we're
doing the same thing.
We're doing the same thing.
>>ROSENBLATT: We just
have to accept that.
I don't think there's any
reason to think they're not.
>>NOORY: Can you
use remote viewing?
I've always thought that you're
doing it to see, to see things.
But can you influence things
through remote viewing?
>>ROSENBLATT: Remote influencing
is a very, very interesting
concept.
I believe the answer
to that is, yes.
>>NOORY: Like entering
dream states of individuals
and changing how they
think or their mindset.
>>ROSENBLATT: You're
influencing how they think.
Remember, the now moment
only happens in one way.
So you may become a
participant in it.
You can't change it.
You know what I mean?
Influence is just
the right word.
>>NOORY: Because
what I used to do,
Marty, is I would concentrate
on certain things, individuals,
for things that I needed
to happen in my life.
And as far-fetched as it may
seem, some of these people
didn't even know me,
but I knew that they
were decision makers for
things I needed to accomplish.
So I would go to sleep
and think of them.
Let's say it's remote viewing.
Think of them.
Think of their brain.
Think of who they were.
And I would send these messages
out, you know, call him.
Call George Noory in the
morning and get this done,
whatever the project was.
And you know what?
In the morning, the
phone would ring.
Hey, George, this is Bob Smith.
I've been thinking about
the proposal you sent me.
I like it.
Let's move forward on that.
How does that work?
>>ROSENBLATT: How does that
work is a tougher question,
but the fact that it
does work is amazing.
>>NOORY: It does work.
>>ROSENBLATT: And it does work.
Remote influencing works.
It hasn't really been
studied scientifically,
but I believe it does work.
And I believe at the
subconscious level
there was actually an agreement
with the person that called you
in your example.
There was an
agreement with that.
But this gets very
controversial because now you
are influencing another person.
Was it against his will?
Would he, in fact, agree to do?
>>NOORY: Maybe he didn't.
Maybe you changed his mind.
>>ROSENBLATT: Well, you
certainly influenced him,
and it's very controversial.
You are now getting into
somebody else's mind.
>>NOORY: Is it unethical?
>>ROSENBLATT:
Exactly, that's why
I liked the example I
showed you of telepathy.
You're doing telepathy.
You're reading your
own mind in the future,
and you're influencing it.
I mean, this idea of
influencing-- the transcript
that gets generated
at remote viewing time
was influenced by
you in your future.
So your own future
is influencing you,
and you can do that
in lots of ways.
I prefer, because I like to
avoid the ethics question--
maybe I shouldn't-- see
how it works on yourself.
You can do health the same way.
You can let your future
healthy self influence you
in the present to
make good choices.
But in terms of remote
influencing others,
getting into
somebody else's mind,
that's what scares our society.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Do you think that
remote viewers today
are looking into the future?
And if they are, what
are they seeing for us?
>>ROSENBLATT: Well,
Joe McMoneagle
wrote a book on that, and he
ultimately sees a good future.
We make it through
some tough times,
so it turns out to be
an optimistic view.
>>NOORY: Really?
See, I would think that we're
going to have a bumpy road.
That's what I see.
>>ROSENBLATT: And he
talks about a bumpy road,
and that's sort of
what I see, too.
I'll tell you one
of the reasons I'm
optimistic about the future.
>>NOORY: I like the
fact that you are.
>>ROSENBLATT: The future
can affect the past.
The future is
affecting the present.
We're here.
The future is going to
have a lot more wisdom.
It's going to have a
lot more knowledge,
based on all the experiences
that we're doing now.
It's learning from all the
crap that's going on now, OK,
but we're still here.
And it's a process,
but we are learning
from a wiser, existing future.
It's like a path, and I don't
think we would be here now.
You know, the fact is, as bad as
it looks, many of us at least--
I was going to say
most, but certainly
most in the United
States-- are doing fine.
Thank you.
We're living
reasonable, happy lives.
>>NOORY: Sure, those who
are working, you know.
>>ROSENBLATT: Well, as I say,
there are most, but guess what.
The reality, the
wisdom that they
have is being connected
to the wisdom which
is coming from the future.
Hey, you look back, and
technologically things
are going ahead at a
remarkable pace, right?
>>NOORY: Sometimes too fast.
>>ROSENBLATT: Well, what
do we mean by too fast?
You see, that's
what we don't know.
I'm claiming--
>>NOORY: Well, remember the old
saying, life was simpler then?
>>ROSENBLATT: It was, and
some would say better.
But notice we cannot
change change.
Change is happening,
and the acceleration
in the technological
field, I believe,
is because the technological
future is passing
on information to us now.
>>NOORY: It's driving us.
>>ROSENBLATT: But guess what.
That means there is that
technological future out there,
which is connected
to a larger society
and a successful,
larger society.
>>NOORY: So you believe our
future, through remote viewing,
shows a pretty good picture?
>>ROSENBLATT: Yes, with
this idea of consciousness
being fundamental and the
sharing of information
from the future with
the present says,
we're going to make it nicely.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: Let's hope so, Marty.
Are you training people
now in remote viewing?
>>ROSENBLATT: Yes, we have an
organization called the Applied
Precognition Project,
and that's what we do.
We are applying remote
viewing, with the focus
on applying precognition.
And we have our conferences
once a year in Las Vegas.
>>NOORY: I've been
to a few of those.
>>ROSENBLATT: Well,
they're actually
separate from the IRVA.
>>NOORY: From the International
Remote Viewing one.
>>ROSENBLATT: Correct, and
we train people, though,
every day.
We have about 15 groups now.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>ROSENBLATT: Each which
have, like, 5 to 15 people.
>>NOORY: Have you seen some
great students come out of it?
>>ROSENBLATT: Oh,
it's remarkable,
and we see students get
better all the time.
And it's just really
exciting to be doing this,
and we want to extend it to
as many people as we can.
>>NOORY: How do they find you?
>>ROSENBLATT: They find
us on appliedprecog.com,
so they can go to our website.
That's the best way to find us.
And they are very active.
>>NOORY: And
anybody can do this?
>>ROSENBLATT: Anybody can do it.
We train them, and
we get them involved
in sports groups,
financial groups,
really doing predictions.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>ROSENBLATT: They get
their feedback, which
is the best way you learn.
Even when you get misses, you
describe the wrong picture,
you learn something.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>ROSENBLATT: And
it deepens you.
The most important
thing from this
turns out not to be
the financial part.
I think that's the
most demonstrable one,
but you learn about
your own subconscious.
You learn how to connect up with
this really, really deep part
of yourself.
>>NOORY: You learn
about yourself.
Marty, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>ROSENBLATT: Thank you.
>>NOORY: I really appreciate it.
Again, one of my
favorite topics,
remote viewing, having ability
to really look into the future
and predict things that
could affect your own life.
I am George Noory.
This is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]